# Mech Builder

* Rogue like
* Strong customization
* Turn based battles
* Randomized resources
* LESBIANS

## Player Characters

Mech builder started out as an idea code-named Hero Builder. Hero
Builder was inspired by deck builders, but instead of building a deck,
you used a mostly fixed deck of generic cards, and got access to new
actions by collecting gear cards that made up your Hero.

I'd like to hold the basic structure of that here: Your stats are
derived from the parts you put in your mech which are the rewards for
encounters.

This should affect art direction as one of the biggest draws to mecha
games for me is customization: Customization of my mech, weapons and
play style.

Probably should add custom pilot skills since the pilot is a significant
character in the story elements I want to explore.

## Combat

The basic flow of combat will be randomly filling bars based on your
stats and spending those resources to perform actions based on what you
have available on your current mech build.

Basic stats to consider:

* Movement
* Aim?/Attack
* Shields?
* Grit?/Gumption/Focus?

Action types:

* Attacks
* Defenses
* Diplomacy? Maybe?

Todo: Expand later.

## The Story

The story is about a butch lesbian mecha pilot who is paired with a
pacifist transgender AI mecha that realize that they need to get out

### Themes to explore

Romance across "species" -- The pilot and the mecha fall in love as they
learn to accept each others approaches to their survival.

Competing Praxis -- The mecha is a pacifist, the Pilot is very willing
to use violence to keep them safe.

Hurt Comfort -- Look, I'm gay for this trope.

Oppressions: Imperialism? Misogyny? Transphobia? I'm mixed on how much I
want to examine each of these. I feel like the fight against the
military is the primary story to tell, but the rest of these will come
fairly naturally since the main characters are women and queer.


### Setting Conceits

Giant robots of course. In the setting, mecha have onboard AI that allow
them to be semi-autonomous. In general, all the line mechs are based on
a single AI, kind of a bro-y military type.

Pilots tend to treat their mecha AI as either battle brothers, or like
very smart pets.

In reality, the AI are just like people: They learn, adapt and can be
creative. The problem is they started off of a mind print of one dude.

Most of the mecha are "standard issue", with minor variations for
specialization, but their internal systems are all similar.

The mecha main character was something different: Very unique internals
that caused her to be "strange". See [characters](#characters) for
details.

### Characters

Short ideas about the characters

#### Pilot

Her background is she wanted to pilot mecha. That means joining the
military. Unsurprising women pilots are rare for all the reasons they're
rare in our world.

She never really set herself apart as a pilot, and was severely injured
when a conflict with her AI ended up with them getting shot down. After
her recovery, she fought hard to get back into the cockpit, and the
military didn't want her.

Eventually, they introduced her to the [Mech](#mech), both considering
"washed out" and a last chance at recovering their investment on both.

#### Mech

The mecha is an experimental prototype: Next general internals, cockpit,
and super structure. When they loaded an updated version of the standard
issue AI, it interacted with the system in an unexpected way and the AI
determined that not only did it have a gender, but it was a woman. After
some test flights, the AI also determined that it did not enjoy fighting
and wouldn't do it.

They found moth-balling the mecha not easy, and decided to keep it in a
remote compound where they let it grow flowers and live, though they
continued to try to introduce it to new pilots, hoping someone could
"control" the uncontrollable new prototype.
